
# Retail_sale_sql_project_1

- This project dives into the retail sales data of a store , analyze it to gain insights into customer behavior, product performance, and sales trends of the store for the span of last two years by  leveraging SQL queries, we'll explore various aspects of the data, such as revenue generated by customer, purchase history, and sales patterns , profit generated by the various product category and so on . 






### Tech Stack
- Technologies used : 
- MS SQL Server Studio 
- Excel 
- Python 



**Features**


- Data Exploration: Analyze the dataset to understand its structure, data types, and distribution.
- Customer Segmentation: Identify customer segments based on purchase behavior, and other relevant factors.
- Sales Analysis: Analyze sales trends, product performance, and customer satisfaction.
- Profitability Analysis
- Time Series Analysis: Explore seasonal patterns and trends in sales data.


## Data Analysis and Business Key Problems 

##### Q1 - Calculate Average Purchase Value in each year made by the customers. 
##### Q2 - calculate the frequency of purchases made by each customer in each year  
##### Q3 - calculate cltv in each year  : CLTV = Average Purchase Value * Purchase Frequency * Customer Lifespan.
##### Q4 - top 10 customers with highest clvt in 2023 year
##### Q5 - Customers who made multiple purchases in multiple categories . 
##### Q6 - Count the days when the total sale revenue generated was more than 1000 , month wise in each year  
##### Q7 - Calculate the avg sales of each month for each year , find the top 3 months in which the sales are highest 
 
**CUSTOMER LOYALTY ANALYSE :**
##### Q8 - Identify the repeat customers 
##### Q9 - Identify high value repeat customers in 2022 and 2023. 

**SALES ANALYSIS** 
##### Q9 - Pattern of sale in each category according to the months of a year . 
##### Q10 - Pattern of purchase followed within each category of gender and the revenue generated from the same in different years .
##### Q11 - Find the pattern in units sold in each category  
##### Q12 - Avg purchase frequency during different hrs of a day in a month

**FINANCIAL ANALYSIS** 
##### Q13 - How much value is generated by the male and female customers in every year .
##### Q14 - For every product category : calculate the profit margin : total sale - cogs /total sale 
##### Q15 - Average selling price (ASP) of each product category .
##### Q16 - Sales volume of each product category 
##### Q17 - Analyze sale trends 
##### Q18 - Analyze costs associated with different product categories, customer segments, or sales channels to identify areas for cost reduction.






